.TH teepot 1
.SH NAME
teepot \- copy from input to many outputs, with buffering.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B teepot
[\fIoptions\fP] [\fI-i <input>\fP] \fI<output1>\fP [\fI<output2> ...\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
teepot duplicates data from its input to each of its outputs, in a similar
mannner to \fBtee\fP(1), but with additional buffering to avoid some of the
deadlock problems that can occur when writing to other processes via pipes.
It also handles piped outputs that get shut down before all of the data has been sent (for example when writing to \fBhead\fP(1)).
.PP
If the outputs do not read at the same rate, data will be buffered up to a
given limit.  When this limit is reached, teepot will try to run at the speed
of the slowest reader.  If the slowest reader fails to read anything for too
long, teepot will use the filesystem to provide extra buffering.  If the
input is a regular file it will do this by simply re-reading the input,
otherwise the data will be saved to temporary files.
.PP
Unlike \fBtee\fP(1), \fBteepot\fP does not write to standard output by default.
To send data to stdout, use '\fB-\fP' as one of the output file names.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIinput\fP
Sets the input file name.  If \fIinput\fP is '\fB-\fP' or this option is not
used, \fBteepot\fP will read from standard input.

.TP
\fB-m\fP \fIlimit\fP
Sets the memory limit for buffering data.  The \fIlimit\fP parameter should be
an integer followed optionally by one of \fBK\fP, \fBM\fP, \fBG\fP or \fBT\fP
for increasing powers of 1024.  The default value is 100M.

.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIsize\fP
Sets the size of each temporary file used to store spilled data.  The
\fIsize\fP parameter is specified in the same way at the limit in the \fB-m\fP
option.  The default is 1000M.  \fBteepot\fP may write an oversize file if it
runs out of file descriptors.

.TP
\fB-t\fP \fIdirectory\fP
Sets the location for temporary files to \fIdirectory\fP.  This needs to have
enough free space to store all of the data that may be spilled (in the
worst case, this may be the full size of the input data).

.TP
\fB-w\fP \fIseconds\fP
Sets the time to wait for the slowest output to \fIseconds\fP.  If the buffer
is full and nothing has been written to the slowest output for the given
interval, \fBteepot\fP will start to spill data to the filesystem.  The
default is 1 second.  Setting this to a negative value will cause data to be
spilled immediately.  The maximum permitted value is 2000000 seconds, which
is approximately 23 days.

.SH BUGS
\fBteepot\fP will currently block if it one of the outputs is a named pipe that
does not have a reader.  This could lead to deadlocks if it is used as part
of a complicated pipeline where some processes are slow to open their inputs.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rob Davies.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014 Genome Research Ltd.
.PP
Teepot is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBtee\fP(1)
